feat(blog): tagging-as-a-treat (#458)
someengineering/resoto.com: blog/2022/11-18-tagging-as-a-treat/index.md

---
authors: [anja]
tags: [aws, tagging, cloud]
---

# Tagging as a Treat

> Cloud Tagging Strategies and Policies are hailed as one of the most efficient ways to keep your cloud infrastructure controllable. But are they really?

Reviewer: Is "Cloud Tagging Strategies and Policies" a proper noun? 🤔

Author: yea no

While in theory this is the right way to do it, in practice this hardly ever works as intended. Every tag created is a tag that needs maintaining. Tagging policies may change over time and people can make honest mistakes when tagging (in <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> for example: tag keys are case sensitive, which can quickly go wrong). To properly use tagging on a greenfield cloud account is one thing - to retroactively apply tags to sprawling cloud infrastructure is quite another (especially when utilising a multi-cloud strategy, where you’d need to repeat any operation over multiple interfaces).

We [asked our community](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6987739499686428672) about their most challenging aspect of cloud tagging strategies:

![LinkedIn Poll](./img/linkedinpoll.png)

Over 70% agree that human error is the biggest issue. Be it on the console, in the UI, in templates or in Terraform config files, tags are initially being typed by people. But then we want them to be properly understood by machines.

> As highlighted in [this recent blog post](../10-14-a-tale-of-two-tools/index.md) going through cloud infrastructure with CLI can be tiresome and requires a lot of contextual knowledge, as the API can differ between services. This is hardly conducive to effectively keeping tags under control. In that post we also outlined how Resoto simplifies interaction with your cloud(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As highlighted in a [recent blog post](../10-14-a-tale-of-two-tools/index.md), going through cloud infrastructure with CLI can be tiresome and requires a lot of contextual knowledge because the API can differ between services. This is hardly conducive to effectively keeping tags under control. In the blog post, we also outlined how Resoto simplifies interaction with your cloud(s).
```

Here, we are going to go through a scenario of tag maintenance on <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> with Resoto in detail:

> Let us consider a (somewhat simplified) scenario where an internal policy demands that all <abbr title="Simple Storage Service">S3</abbr> Buckets and <abbr title="Elastic Compute Cloud">EC2</abbr> Volumes carry a tag with the key “costcenter” and a value that corresponds to a department or a project. Most developers know about this, but the information is often conveyed by word of mouth and not by looking into the policy itself. As a result, the tag is sometimes being mis-spelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us consider a (somewhat simplified) scenario where an internal policy demands that all <abbr title="Simple Storage Service">S3</abbr> buckets and <abbr title="Elastic Compute Cloud">EC2</abbr> volumes carry a tag with the key “costcenter” and a value that corresponds to a department or a project. Most developers know about this, but the information is often conveyed by word of mouth and not by looking into the policy itself. As a result, the tag is sometimes being misspelled.
```

```bash title="search for all resources that are EC2 Volumes or S3 Buckets and count them"
> search is(aws_ec2_volume) or is(aws_s3_bucket) | count
# highlight-start
total matched: 20
total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

Check how many of these resources carry the correct tag by adding a condition that a tag with the key 'costcenter' exists:

```bash title="add the condition that a tag with key 'costcenter' must exist"
> search is(aws_ec2_volume) or is(aws_s3_bucket) and tags.costcenter != null | count
# highlight-start
total matched: 16
total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

If you already have your suspicions about mis-spellings check how many of these resources carry a spelling variant of the tag by varying the tag-condition:

```bash title="add the condition that a tag with key **CostCenter** must exist"
> search is(aws_ec2_volume) or is(aws_s3_bucket) and tags.CostCenter != null | count
# highlight-start
total matched: 4
total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

**Alternatively**, if you don’t yet have an idea about which typos might have snuck into your data, search for all tags:

```bash title="search for all tags of all resources and count how often they occur"

> > search all | jq '.tags | keys | .[] | {name:.}' | flatten | count /name

Reviewer 2: Why not search for aws_ec2_volume and bucket just like above?

Author: because I lazily copied that example 😆 fixed it
